# Ruby Exercism Exercises

if I want to keep track of notes and post them online then github supports all of these actions very easily.


this is how you use code snippets and can also do the same in piazza
``` ruby
def hello
  puts "hello world"
end
```
 this is how you remove hyphens and space from string while keep it an array 

``` ruby
string.split(/\s*-\s*|\s+/).reject(&:empty?)
```

my completed the Acronym ruby practice today 

``` ruby
class Acronym
  def self.abbreviate(string)
    word_array = string.split(/\s*-\s*|\s+/).reject(&:empty?)
    i = 0
    acronym = ""
    while i < word_array.length do
      word = word_array[i]
      acronym += word[0].upcase
      i += 1
    end
    return acronym
  end
end
```

To create a new line in markdown, use double space at the end of the line.

To highlight a block of code or text, use triple backticks before and after the block or text.

You can add comments in your code using the # symbol.

To access the first character of a string in Ruby, use the index 0.

To iterate over an array in Ruby, use the .each method.


## to test if true or false
To test if something is false one time and then the whole thing is false for the rest of the function, you can use a flag variable to keep track of whether the condition has been false at least once.

```ruby
def check_array(array)
  flag = true
  for element in array do
    if !element
      flag = false
    end
    if flag == false
      break
    end
  end
  return flag
end
```

Some of the things that I learning when solving the isogram is 

the `.gsub(/[^a-z]/, '')` method it removes all the non-alphabetic characters

```ruby
class Isogram
  def self.isogram?(input)
    input = input.downcase.gsub(/[^a-z]/, '') # remove non-alphabetic characters and convert to lowercase
    input.chars == input.chars.uniq # if the unique characters of the string are the same as the original characters, it is an isogram
  end
end
```

This implementation first removes any non-alphabetic characters and converts the input string to lowercase. Then it checks whether the unique characters in the resulting string are the same as the original characters. If they are, the string is an isogram, otherwise it's not.

`input.chars` and `input.chars.uniq.`

`input.chars` converts the input string to an array of its characters. For example, if input is the string "isogram", `input.chars` would return the array `["i", "s", "o", "g", "r", "a", "m"]`.

input.chars.uniq returns a new array with only the unique elements from the `input.chars` array. So in the case of "isogram", input.chars.uniq would return `["i", "s", "o", "g", "r", "a", "m"]` because there are no duplicate characters.

By comparing these two arrays with `==`, we're checking if they are equal. If they are equal, it means that there are no duplicate characters in the original input string, which satisfies the definition of an isogram. If they are not equal, it means that there is at least one character that appears more than once in the original input string, which means it's not an isogram.


### blocks 

```ruby 
a = [0,1,2,3,4]
# odd only 
a.select {|x| x.odd?}

# or 

a.filter do |num|
  num.odd?
end

a.filter(&:odd?)
# => [1,3]
```

learing how to use blocks on rails

```ruby
contact_list = [
  {name: 'marcus', phone: 737},
  {name: 'james', phone: 737},
  {name: 'jake', phone: 745}
]

contact_list.each { |contact| puts contact[:name] }
# prints out 
# marcus
# james
# jake

contact_list.map { |contact| contact[:name] }
# => ["marcus", "james", "jake"]

contact_list.map { |contact| contact[:name] }.filter { |name| name[:m] }
# => ["marcus]
```
